Occupied Bojador. Feb 13. 2021 (SPS) - Members of the Moroccan repressive apparatuses have brutally attacked the Saharawi activist Sultana Khaya and her sister Elwaara Khaya at their home in the busy town of Bojador.
Sources from the occupied city report that Moroccan agents Hakim Amern and his deputy. Mohamed Madi. cruelly beat the activist for her peaceful protests and rejection of the Moroccan occupation in Western Sahara.
Moroccan authorities have intensified harassment against Sahrawi human rights defenders through surveillance of prominent human rights defenders. it should be recalled SPS125/090/TRA

Bir Lehlu (Sahrawi Republic). Feb 10. 2021 (SPS) - Units of the Saharawi People's Liberation Army (SPLA) conducted further attacks against the positions of the Moroccan occupation army along the Wall of Shame. according to War Report No. 91 issued by the Ministry of National Defense
- Intense bombardment against the occupation forces positioned in the Gararat Alfirsik region. Mahbes sector.
- Concentrated bombardments against enemy forces entrenched in the Adeim Um Ajlud region. Auserd sector.
- Heavy bombardment against enemy positions in the Um Dagan region. Al-Bagari sector.
- Concentrated bombardments against enemy positions in the Gleibat Al-Agaya region. AL-Bagari sector.
- Intense bombardment against enemy forces in the Gararat Lehdid region. Farsía Sector.
According to the same sources. the bombardments by the units of the Saharawi People's Liberation Army continue to devastate the positions of the Moroccan occupation forces. leaving considerable human and material losses in their ranks along the Wall of Shame. SPS
125/090/TRA

Chahidel Hafed. Feb 13. 2021 (SPS) - the Sahrawi Committee for Human Rights (CONASADH) slammed the crime of arbitrary arrest against Gali Buha-la and Nafee Butasufra. committed by the Moroccan occupation authorities in the occupied city of El-Ayoun against Sahrawi citizens in the occupied part of Western Sahara.
Sahrawi Human Rights NGO adds In its statement. this crime constitutes another evidence of the occupying power war crimes against Saharawi people and clear violation of international humanitarian law against Sahrawi civilians under occupation in wartime.
CONASADH has also expressed its solidarity with all the Sahrawi political prisoners. the Gdeim Izik Group. alerting of the dire consequences of the Moroccan occupation authorities persistent negligence of the demands of political prisoner Mohamed Lamine Abidin Haddi. whose life is in danger due to the ill-treatment and harassment. SPS
125/090/TRA

Paris. Feb 13. 2021 (SPS) - The Observatory for the Protection of Human Rights Defenders. a partner of the International Federation for Human Rights (FIHD). urged the Moroccan occupier to "guarantee in all circumstances the physical and psychological integrity of Sahrawi activist Mahfouda Bamba Lefkir. her family. and all human rights defenders in Western Sahara. and to put an end to all forms of harassment. including at the judicial level. and any act of intimidation.
The Observatory called. in a statement. for the opening. "without delay". of an "exhaustive. independent. effective. rigorous. impartial and transparent investigation into the allegations of ill-treatment against Mahfouda Bamba Lefkir . in order to identify those responsible. bring them before an independent. competent and impartial tribunal. in accordance with international and regional instruments for the protection of human rights. and apply the criminal. civil or administrative sanctions provided for by law ".SPS
125/090/TRA

Chahidel Hafed. Feb 13. 2021 (SPS) - The head of the Political Organization of the Frente POLISARIO said that the Saharawi Republic intends to file a lawsuit against Morocco before the AU Court of Justice for crimes against humanity
Jatri Adduh goes on saying. while replying to national media at the Sahara Hora Forum. that the legal proceedings against the Moroccan occupier for his crimes committed in Western Sahara and his looting of Sahrawi natural resources are among the measures initiated by SADR.SPS
125/090/TRA

Bir Lehlu (Liberated Zones). Feb 09. 2021 (SPS) - Special units of the Saharawi National Liberation Army have carried out a successful operation against the guard post of the 2nd Battalion of the 9th Armored Division of the Royal Armed Forces of Morocco where weapons. equipment and personal documents were seized. according to war report No. 89 issued by the Ministry of National Defense
The offensive has taken place against positions of the Moroccan occupation army positioned in the Ouarkziz Mountains in the Agha sector. in the middle of Moroccan territory.
“The operation has succeeded in demonstrating the ability of the Sahrawi National Liberation Army to continue dealing harsh blows to the Moroccan occupier. advancing from southern Morocco to the southern of Western Sahara”.
During this successful offensive. our fighters were able to fully control the target point and destroy it completely. in addition to shooting down the commander of the Moroccan guard. the warrant officer named Al-Naka. and the three guards. including the soldier named Zouali.
Our fighters were also able. during this attack. to seize the following enemy assets and equipment:
PK machine gun with number 1-593
Kalashnikov model assault rifle. under the number MH 0819 (commander of the Moroccan guard)
Kalashnikov model assault rifle. under the number NG8528
Personal and official documents of Moroccan soldiers
SPS/125/090/TRA

Moscow (Russia) Jan 28. 2021 (SPS) -The resumption of war between Morocco and the Sahrawi Republic is not a "surprise" considering the failure of the influent international parties to deal with Western Sahara issue and the procrastination of the international community in getting Morocco to come back to the negotiation table. political analyst Sidi Mohamed Benjaafar said.
In an interview with Russian radio Sputnik on Monday. Benjaafar said "the prevailing tension is not a surprise as the Frente POLISARIO had warned. two years ago. that if Morocco did not return to the negotiation table. all relevant UN agreements would fall apart."
The specter of war was threatening for several months. he said. adding that "Western Sahara people have understood that Morocco does not want to negotiate." hence the escalation.
According to him. "if the situation becomes worse. the international community will certainly take action for a ceasefire and a settlement. but Morocco is betting on the time factor."
In addition. the Sahrawi political analyst said. Morocco's position over Western Sahara "is inconsistent with the international resolutions calling for a referendum on self-determination. as Morocco has submitted its own autonomy plan that is rejected by the Sahrawi people."
Western Sahara people are betting on international and African resolutions that stress the necessity of decolonization and the recognition of the borders inherited from the colonial era." SPS125/090/TRA

Paris. Jan 28. 2021 (SPS) -Representative of the Frente POLISARIO in France Mohamed Sidati affirmed Tuesday that the qualitative operation conducted by the Sahrawi army in El Guerguarat has unveiled Morocco’s blackout on the war in Western Sahara. urging the Mekhzen to acquiesce to the international law. 
In a statement to APS. Sidati underlined that the Moroccan system is not only doing a blackout on the war in Western Sahara but also make the public opinion believe that the situation is under control. pointing out that it isn’t possible to conceal the truth (…) when the blow is deadly and the noise of the military operations is solemn.
The diplomat underlined that the Moroccan themselves were witnesses on the quality of the operation conducted by the units of the Sahrawi army in El Guerguarat. and are aware of the reality of the war. underscoring that the Sahrawi army was strongly committed to extending the military action until the recovery of the independence.
The Moroccan system always attempts to make people believe that the situation is under control in Western Sahara. while the operation of El-Guergarat let him completely confused. notably after the broad media coverage of the military operation. he said. adding that the Moroccan army’s losses were so important that doing the blackout and trying to mislead the public opinion is no more possible.
The Mekhzen system must be aware of the armed fatality. show wisdom and acquiesce to the international legitimacy. said Sidati. stressing that the Sahrawi people’s struggle will continue for its inalienable rights and that the military operations are but a legitimate reaction in the face of the occupation of our land and the plundering of our natural resource.SPS125/090/700

Gaborone (Botswana) 26 January 2021 (SPS)- The President of the Republic of Botswana. H.E. Dr. Mokgweetsi E.K. Masisi. considered that Morocco must end its illegal occupation of parts of the Saharawi Republic. during his reception of Saharawi Minister for Foreign Affairs. Mr. Mohamed Salem Ould Salek. who is visiting Botswana as Special Envoy of the Saharawi President. H.E. Mr. Brahim Ghali.
President Masisi reiterated the principled and steadfast support Botswana has always granted to the Saharawi legitimate struggle for freedom. self-determination and independence. considering that Africa cannot be free unless the Saharawi Republic is totally free.
Botswana President further considered that the African Union and African countries cannot accept the violation of the principles of the Constitutive Act of the Union. mainly the principles of the respect for the borders existing upon independence.
The meeting was an opportunity for the Saharawi Minister to highly praise Botswana for the advanced and honorable position on the conflict; stressing the important role it can play within regional. continental and international forums.
The meeting was also attended by Botswana Minister for International Affairs and Cooperation. Hon. Dr. Lemogang Kwape. Director of the Department for Africa. Dr. Charles Masole. and the Saharawi Ambassador to Botswana. Mr. Malainin Mohamed.
On Monday. the Saharawi Minister was received by his Botswana peer. Dr.Lemogang Kwape. at the Ministery of International Affairs. in the presence of members of the Ministry's Staff and the Saharawi Ambassador.
The Special Envoy visited other countries during the last few weeks. to brief them on the latest developments in the conflict in Western Sahara after the resumption of war between the armies of the Sahrawi Republic and the occupying army of Moroco last November 13. 2020. (SPS)
090/500/60 (SPS)

Algiers. 9 January 2020 (SPS) - Ambassador of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic (SADR) in Algeria. Abdelkader Taleb Omar said Thursday that the Moroccan regime has received "successive slaps" from the international community "following its transgression of international legality and its attempts to impose the fait-accompli policy in Western Sahara. whose UN resolutions affirm the right of its people to self-determination.
	In a statement to the APS on the sidelines of a sit-in of solidarity with the Sahrawi people and in particular with Sahrawi women. organized by the Algerian Women's Forum at the headquarters of the Sahrawi Embassy in Algeria. the Sahrawi ambassador said that the withdrawal by NATO of a map of Morocco that included parts of Western Sahara by replacing it with another clearly delineating the internationally recognized borders between Morocco and Western Sahara was a "hard blow to the Moroccan regime."
	"The Makhzen tried to create an outcry and invest in the first NATO map that did not initially include the internationally recognized borders between Morocco and Western Sahara. thinking it was a definitive position "before the Organization replaced the old map with a new map that" clearly defines the internationally recognized borders. he said.
	The Sahrawi diplomat stressed that the exclusion of occupied Western Sahara by the European Union (EU) from the international agreement on passenger transport by bus known as "Inter-Bus" was "another blow to the Makhzen. who has not digested the case and hastened to mobilize his press to deny this information before the EU discloses it on its official website by publishing the contents of the agreement which confirms that it does not include the Sahrawi territories classified as Non-Self-Governing Territories.
	The international community "tightens the noose around the Moroccan regime. because of its persistence to rebel against international legality. and its disregard of UN resolutions in an open manner. with the complicity of some colonial powers that provide support and protection to the UN Security Council."
	Taleb Omar also expressed his "regret for the image being propagated by" the outgoing U.S. President Donald Trump. saying that "President Trump's supporters stormed Congress and the images we saw were a first in U.S. history" "so that the world knows who are the friends of the King of Morocco. who opened the doors of the Maghreb region to the Zionist entity." he said.
	The Sahrawi Ambassador further expressed his "pride in the support of the just forces" for the Sahrawi cause.
	"At the head of these friendly countries is Algeria. which remains a beacon for all liberation movements around the world." concluded the Sahrawi Ambassador. (SPS)
	062/090/700
Algiers. 14 December 2020 (SPS) - Representative of the Polisario Front at the United Nations Sidi Mohamed Omar affirmed Saturday that the adoption by the UN General Assembly of a new resolution on Western Sahara is a hard blow for the Moroccan occupation and its attempts to distort the Sahrawi cause.
	In a statement to APS. the Sahrawi diplomat said that the assertion by the UN General Assembly of the legal nature of the Sahrawi cause as a decolonization issue as well as UN’s responsibility vis-à-vis the Sahrawi people is a hard blow for the Moroccan occupier and its attempts to legally distort the cause.”
	“The new resolution will strengthen the position announced by the UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres on the legal status of Western Sahara as a decolonization issue that could be resolved only through the Sahrawi people themselves by exercising their unchanging right to self-determination.” he said.
	UN General Assembly adopted without voting on Thursday a new decision on the Sahrawi issue during its 75th session in which it reiterated the legal status of Western Sahara as a decolonization issue.
	Sidi Mohamed Omar underlined that the General Assembly’s resolution comes to reiterate the Sahrawi people’s unchanging right to self-determination and the independence in accordance with the principles contained in the UN Charter 1514 (D-15) but also to strengthen the position of the international organization vis-à-vis the Sahrawi cause which is a decolonization issue on the agenda of the 4th commission and the special committee in charge of studying the situation concerning the implementation of the Declaration on the granting of independence to colonial peoples and countries. (SPS)
	062/090/700
Chahid El Hafed. Feb 10. 2021 (SPS) -The head of the Political Secretariat of Frente POLISARIO. Mr. Jatri Adduh said that the African Union has reaffirmed the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic´s sovereignty over its entire national territory. represent a significant gain for the struggle of the Sahrawi people towards its independence and freedom.
Jatri Adduh goes on saying. while replying to national media at the Sahara Hora Forum. that the solution to the Sahrawi issue went through the Moroccan recognition of the sovereignty of the SADR over its entire national territory. highlighting. the international community does not recognize Morocco's sovereignty over Western Sahara.
The inaction of the international community as well as influential countries interests in Morocco encourages him to breach international law and legality in Western Sahara. he added SPS
125/090/TRA

Bir Lehlu . Feb16. 2021 (SPS) - The President of the Saharawi Republic. Mr. Brahim Gali regretted this Tuesday the inaction of the international body and its Security Council in the face of serious aggressive acts against Sahrawi citizens in Occupied Zones.
The Sahrawi president in two messages to the UN SG and the president of the UN Security Council. said that the Frente POLISARIO condemns in the strongest terms. the practices of intimidation and retaliation of the Moroccan security apparatus against defenseless Sahrawi citizens. and blamed the Moroccan occupation for the escalation and reprisals in the Sahrawi Occupied Zones”.
"The war of aggression and retaliation waged these days by the Moroccan occupation authorities with all their security apparatus in the occupied areas of the Western Sahara adds to the history of crimes of genocide and murder that the Moroccan occupation state has been practicing against the civilian population Saharawi since the beginning of its invasion and military occupation of the territory. on October 31. 1975 ". affirms the Head of State in his message.
In this context. the President of the Republic regretted "the inaction of the General Secretariat and the Security Council and their shameful silence in the face of this aggressive act and barbaric practices in the occupied cities of Western Sahara. in view of the United Nations and its mission in the region”
He said that the UN should assume its "legal and moral responsibility towards the Saharawi people. especially civilians living in the areas under illegal Moroccan occupation. through the use of international protection mechanisms and the development of practical measures that guarantee their safety and protection. including the establishment of an independent and permanent United Nations mechanism for the protection of human rights in occupied Western Sahara”.
POLISARIO’s SG stressed that "the intimidation and physical and psychological torture suffered today by the Sidi Brahim Khaya family in the occupied city of Bojador. is just one example of the oppression. abuse and daily practices suffered by civilians Sahrawis in occupied Sahrawi cities ".SPS125/090/TRA

Dakhla (Refugee Camps). July 9. 2016 (SPS) - Ibrahim Ghali was elected Saturday in the Wilaya of Dakhla. Sahrawi refugee camps. by an overwhelming majority the Secretary General of the Polisario Front and President of the Sahrawi Republic as required by the Constitution. during the works of the Extraordinary Congress of the Polisario Front. 
Candidate Ibrahim Ghali obtained 1766 from 1895 of votes cast. according to the announcement of the Election Committee after counting the final results. 
Ibrahim Ghali was born on 19 August 1949 in Smara town. He joined the movement against Spanish colonialism led by late Mohamed Ibrahim Basiri.
He is one of the founders of the Polisario Front. and he was elected the first Secretary General of the Polisario Front during its first Congress May 10. 1973. He led the first military operation against the Spanish colonization. which was the first spark of the declaration of the armed struggle on May 20. 1973. 
He was appointed Minister of Defense in the first Sahrawi government in March 1976 until 1989. 
He was elected in the Executive Committee of the Polisario Front during the Third Congress in 1976 until the Eighth Congress in 1989. then a member of the National Secretariat of the Polisario Front during the Ninth Congress in 1999 until 14th Congress in 2015. 
He was the commander of the Second Military Regiment from 1989 to 1993. He was the Minister of Defense from 1993 to 1998. He was appointed the Minister of the occupied Territories from 1998 to 1999. 
From 1999 to 2004. he was the representative of the Polisario Front in Spain. In 2008. he was appointed an ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary to the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria.
In January 2016. he was appointed in charge of Secretariat of Political Organization of the Polisario Front. a position he held until his election the Secretary General of the Polisario Front and President of the Sahrawi Republic on July 9. 2016. 
Ibrahim Ghali is the third Secretary General of the Polisario Front. following the two martyrs. El-Wali Mustafa Sayed and Mohamed Abdelaziz. (SPS)
062/090
Bir Lehlou. April 17. 2018 (SPS) - The Frente POLISARIO has called on the Security Council to use its authority to urge Morocco to engage seriously and constructively in the political process. to respect the terms of the ceasefire and Military Agreement No. 1. and to desist from taking any action that may increase tension in the region and threaten its stability and security. in information note. a copy of which obtained by SPS
“The Frente POLISARIO has called urgently on the Security Council to ensure that such diversionary tactics do not distract it from the real issues that must be addressed for the negotiating process between the two parties to advance towards its ultimate objective. namely a peaceful and just solution providing for the self-determination of the people of Western Sahara. “ POLISARIO´s information note says
Following is the full text of the Information note:
Morocco has recently engaged in a media and diplomatic campaign of misinformation and propaganda in which it has threatened to take military action to forcibly annex the Liberated Territories of the Western Sahara. alleging that the Frente POLISARIO has violated the terms of the 199l UN- supervised ceasefire in Western Sahara.
The misinformation campaign involved the dissemination of a series of fabrications and misrepresentations of the realities on the ground. particularly in terms of the geographical scheme enacted under the ceasefire and the related military agreement between the Frente POLISARIO and Morocco.
In light of the above. it is necessary to clarify the following:
I. Military Agreement No. 1. which regulates the ceasefire between the Frente POLISARIO and Morocco. establishes the Moroccan military wall as a line of separation between the Sahrawi and Moroccan armies pending the holding of the self- determination referendum to determine the final status of the Territory. The 2700km Moroccan military wall — lined with over five-million landmines — establishes a 5km wide "buffer zone" to the east and along the military wall.
2. The Agreement further establishes two restricted areas (25 km east and 30 km west of the Moroccan military wall respectively). where firing of weapons and/or military training exercises. redeployment or movement of troops. entry of arms and ammunition and improvements of defence infrastructures are not permitted.
3. Morocco's claim that Bir Lehlou and Tifariti — where the UN has team sites — are located within the "buffer zone" is false. Bir Lehlou and Tifariti are located 55km and 84km from the Moroccan military wall respectively. The other localities east of the military wall situated in the Sahrawi Liberated Territories are at a distance of at least 90km from the Moroccan military wall. and therefore outside the "buffer zone". Furthermore. it should be recalled that when the UN first established its presence in the Western Sahara in 1991. UN personnel were housed in preexisting Frente POLISARIO compounds in these localities. Mahbes. which Morocco has referenced. is located in the occupied Territory of Western Sahara west of the military wall.
4. Morocco's allegations regarding violations of the ceasefire by the Frente POLISARIO were refuted by the United Nations itself on 3 April 2018 through the Spokesman of the UN Secretary-General. who said. "With respect to [the situation in the buffer strip]. our colleagues in MINURSO [United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara] have not observed any movement of military elements in the northeast territory."
5. Furthermore. Morocco has rejected the deployment of a UN expert mission to address the fundamental questions related to the ceasefire and related agreements in response to the call made by the Security Council in its Resolution 2351 (2017). Operative Paragraph 3. of 28 April 2017. As recognised by the UN Secretary-General in his latest report submitted to the Security Council on 29 March 2018. the Frente POLISARIO has already accepted the deployment of the UN mission of experts. which is a clear demonstration of its strong commitment to the ceasefire and the UN peace process. In this regard. it should be recalled that the intermittent presence of Frente POLISARIO members in the Guerguerate area is strictly civilian and non-military.
6. Since the entry-into-force of the ceasefire in 1991. the Frente POLISARIO has been administering and developing the Sahrawi Liberated Territories under its control. The military regions and units of the Sahrawi Liberation Army (SPLA) have always been present in Western Sahara since the start of the liberation war against Spanish colonial presence in 1973. The Frente POLISARIO has also built vital infrastructure (such as hospitals. schools and water sources. etc.) for the inhabitants of those areas who live in localities spread across the entire Liberated Territories. including. for the last 27 years. providing security and water for the UN team sites.
7. In recent decades. senior officials and high-level foreign delegations representing European. Pan-African and national parliaments. national governments. political parties. civil society organisations and international media. have been received by the Frente POLISARIO in the Sahrawi Liberated Territories. In addition. senior UN officials including UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon. Personal Envoy of the Secretary-General for Western Sahara Christopher Ross. Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Western Sahara William Swing and numerous members of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO) have been received in the area.
8. Western Sahara is a Non-Self-Governing Territory awaiting a process of decolonization; its status to be decided — democratically — through a referendum on self-determination. By giving credence to Moroccan allegations it is as if the status of the territory has already been decided.
9. The adoption of the UN Security Council resolution on Western Sahara on 24 April 2018 is therefore an opportunity to address the root cause of the current situation. namely that Morocco has systematically reneged on all international agreements it has signed. beginning with the refusal to implement the Settlement Plan in 1991 and the refusal to engage in negotiations since March 2012. Morocco has consistently and repeatedly violated the ceasefire agreement. This includes constant reinforcement of its military presence along the military wall; systematic violations of the human rights and plunder of the natural resources of the people of Western Sahara. in contravention of international law; transferring thousands of Moroccan settlers to Western Sahara to change the demographic nature and administrative configuration of the Territory; failure to adhere to the full range of standard UN peacekeeping functions; and crossing the military wall by building a road in the Guergerate area. Most recently. Morocco has engaged in incendiary threats of war and intimidation tactics. These have included the redeployment of troops to the occupied Territory of Western Sahara. as well as aerial reconnaissance missions.
10. It is clear that Morocco's misinformation and propaganda campaign regarding the UN-supervised ceasefire and the situation on the ground in Western Sahara is a diversionary tactic designed to divert the attention of the UN Security Council away from the real issues that underlie the current stalemate caused by Morocco.
I I . The Frente POLISARIO calls urgently on the Security Council to ensure that such diversionary tactics do not distract it from the real issues that must be addressed for the negotiating process between the two parties to advance towards its ultimate objective. namely a peaceful and just solution providing for the self-determination of the people of Western Sahara. The Frente POLISARIO also calls on the Security Council to use its authority to urge Morocco to engage seriously and constructively in the political process. to respect the terms of the ceasefire and Military Agreement No. 1. and to desist from taking any action that may increase tension in the region and threaten its stability and security.
125/090	

